docs: stats guide for setting static to dynamic (#8771)
pingcap/docs: partitioned-table.md

set @@session.tidb_partition_prune_mode = 'dynamic'
```

Manual ANALYZE and normal queries use the session-level `tidb_partition_prune_mode` setting. The `auto-analyze` operation in the background uses the global `tidb_partition_prune_mode` setting.

> In `static` mode, partitioned tables use partition-level statistics. In `dynamic` mode, partitioned tables use table-level statistics, or GlobalStats. For detailed information about GlobalStats, see [Collect statistics of partitioned tables in dynamic pruning mode](/statistics.md#collect-statistics-of-partitioned-tables-in-dynamic-pruning-mode).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In `static` mode, partitioned tables use partition-level statistics. In `dynamic` mode, partitioned tables use table-level statistics (that is, GlobalStats). For detailed information about GlobalStats, see [Collect statistics of partitioned tables in dynamic pruning mode](/statistics.md#collect-statistics-of-partitioned-tables-in-dynamic-pruning-mode).
```

3 rows in set (0.01 sec)
```

To make sure that the statistics used by SQL statements are correct after you enable global `dynamic` pruning mode, you need to manually trigger `analyze` on the tables or on a partition of the table to obtain GlobalStats.

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
analyze table t partition p1;
show stats_meta where table_name like "t";
```

```
+---------+------------+----------------+---------------------+--------------+-----------+
| Db_name | Table_name | Partition_name | Update_time         | Modify_count | Row_count |
+---------+------------+----------------+---------------------+--------------+-----------+
| test    | t          | global         | 2022-05-27 20:50:53 |            0 |         5 |
| test    | t          | p0             | 2022-05-27 20:23:34 |            1 |         2 |
| test    | t          | p1             | 2022-05-27 20:50:52 |            0 |         2 |
| test    | t          | p2             | 2022-05-27 20:50:08 |            0 |         2 |
+---------+------------+----------------+---------------------+--------------+-----------+
4 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

> If the following warning is displayed during the `analyze` process, partition statistics are inconsistent, and you need to collect statistics of all partitions or the entire table.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the following warning is displayed during the `analyze` process, partition statistics are inconsistent, and you need to collect statistics of the inconsistent partitions or the entire table.
```

set @@session.tidb_partition_prune_mode = 'dynamic'
```

> In `dynamic` mode, TiDB collects table-level summary statistics, or GlobalStats, from partitioned tables. For detailed information about GlobalStats, see [Collect statistics of partitioned tables in dynamic pruning mode](/statistics.md#collect-statistics-of-partitioned-tables-in-dynamic-pruning-mode).

Reviewer 2: LGTM

> In `dynamic` mode, TiDB collects table-level summary statistics, or GlobalStats, from partitioned tables. For detailed information about GlobalStats, see [Collect statistics of partitioned tables in dynamic pruning mode](/statistics.md#collect-statistics-of-partitioned-tables-in-dynamic-pruning-mode).

Author: fixed

> When switching from `static` mode to `dynamic` mode, you need to check and collect statistics manually. This is because after the switch to `dynamic` mode, there are only partition statistics, and no table statistics. GlobalStats are collected only upon the next `auto-analyze` operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When switching from the `static` mode to `dynamic` mode, you need to check and collect statistics manually. This is because after the switch to `dynamic` mode, partitioned tables have only partition-level statistics but no table-level statistics. GlobalStats are collected only upon the next `auto-analyze` operation.
```

+---------+------------+----------------+---------------------+--------------+-----------+
| test    | t          | p0             | 2022-05-27 20:23:34 |            1 |         2 |
| test    | t          | p1             | 2022-05-27 20:23:34 |            2 |         4 |
| test    | t          | p2             | 2022-05-27 20:23:34 |            2 |         4 |
+---------+------------+----------------+---------------------+--------------+-----------+
3 rows in set (0.01 sec)
mysql> show stats_meta where table_name like "t";
+---------+------------+----------------+---------------------+--------------+-----------+
| Db_name | Table_name | Partition_name | Update_time         | Modify_count | Row_count |
+---------+------------+----------------+---------------------+--------------+-----------+
| test    | t          | p0             | 2022-05-27 20:23:34 |            1 |         2 |
| test    | t          | p1             | 2022-05-27 20:23:34 |            2 |         4 |
| test    | t          | p2             | 2022-05-27 20:23:34 |            2 |         4 |
+---------+------------+----------------+---------------------+--------------+-----------+

> 3 rows in set (0.01 sec)

Reviewer 2: LGTM

> 3 rows in set (0.01 sec)

Author: fixed

    ```sql
    select distinct concat('ANALYZE TABLE ',TABLE_SCHEMA,'.',TABLE_NAME,' ALL COLUMNS;')
        from information_schema.PARTITIONS
        where TABLE_SCHEMA not in ('INFORMATION_SCHEMA','mysql','sys','PERFORMANCE_SCHEMA','METRICS_SCHEMA');
    +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
    | concat('ANALYZE TABLE ',TABLE_SCHEMA,'.',TABLE_NAME,' ALL COLUMNS;') |
    +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
    | ANALYZE TABLE test.t ALL COLUMNS;                                    |
    +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
    1 row in set (0.01 sec)
    ```

    You can change `ALL COLUMNS` to the columns you need.

3. Export the batch update statements to a file:

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    mysql --host xxxx --port xxxx -u root -p -e "select distinct concat('ANALYZE TABLE ',TABLE_SCHEMA,'.',TABLE_NAME,' ALL COLUMNS;') \
        from information_schema.PARTITIONS \
        where TABLE_SCHEMA not in ('INFORMATION_SCHEMA','mysql','sys','PERFORMANCE_SCHEMA','METRICS_SCHEMA');" | tee gatherGlobalStats.sql
    ```

4. Execute a batch update:

>     Process SQL statements before executing the `source` statement:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Process SQL statements before executing the `source` command:
```

Reviewer: `source` is a MySQL client command.
https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/mysql-commands.html
